Spacewar (working title)

Setting:
A solar system with two factions that are constantly at war with each other.
Both have developed interplanetary spaceflight but are still constrained
 by fuel requirements.
There are numerous space stations and docks in orbit around the planets.
Big transport ships carry smaller fighter craft to enemy installations.
Planets and space stations get captured by infantry that has to get there
 with dropships.
Planets will in most cases have to be weakened by bombers beforehand.
Pilots have to conserve their fuel unless they want risk getting captured
 by the enemy or burning up in the atmosphere.
(Ammunition also has to be conserved)

Gameplay:
The player starts a fighter pilot for one faction but can be promoted into higher ranks.
Some possible ranks are:
 Fighter pilot (start)
 Bomber/Corvette pilot
 Dropship pilot
 Transport captain
 Battleship captain
 Fleet admiral (command other ships in a fleet)
 1. Admiral (command all fleets of the faction)
The player wins if his faction controls all planets/stations in the system.
The player looses if he dies or if his faction no longer owns any planets/stations (and no infantry?).

Physic simulation:
Full newtonian physics
(should planets be movable too? The problem with this would be the missing accuracy of floating point calculations)
Firing weapons creates recoil that will move smaller ships.
Atmosspheres burn up ships if they enter to fast.
Debris remains in orbit and collides with combatants.
How do collisions in space work? (in terms of changes in velocity and impact force)

Damage simulation:
Health bars (other stuff might be cool but would be to difficult to implement)
Repairs are free but take time (the game will be sped up during the repair)
During the repairs the player will keep track of the war with news bulletins
 (like "Delta fleet successfully captured Magrathea")

Combat:
Fighters/Bombers only have a main engine and reaction wheels.
Battleships and Transporters have rcs and more lateral control.
Fighters can only fire in a fixed direction while bigger ships have turrets that automatically fire on enemy ships in range.
Corvettes will still have main guns though.

Economy:
Empires gain resources by controling planets.
These resources will be spent on building new ships and space stations.
The player gains reknown by serving his empire.
Reknown can be spend on better ships/equipment.

Influence leaders(not in the prototype):
reknown can also be spend to influence the building of planetary installations and space stations 

Graphics:
either 2D (circular planets and flat orbits)
or 3D (like kerbal space program)
